---
layout: post
title:  "Giving Gentoo Another Try"
date:   2016-08-01 11:06:00 -0600
---

As you may have read from a post a few months ago i tried and gave up on Gentoo in a day because i didn't grasp how USE tags worked, i was missing needed modules in my custom compiled kernel and i got sick of waiting for everything to compile (i tried to compile KDE Plasma). But now after a few months of Arch and Void i found myself wanting to try again as there are benefits to compiling all the software you use.

My first time installing Gentoo...well first three times as i royally screwed up the first two but after installing Arch about ten thousand times Gentoo seems quite a bit easier to install now! After installing comes the fun part re creating your whole work space that you just nuked well as i learned about from /r/unixporn (You should go there it's amazing) you don't need a "full" desktop all you need in a window manager and after playing with i3 and openbox i choose openbox because of the fact that it just works once you install it and it is very light weight now to put it into context of how long it took me last to to get it half working vs this time the first time took me fifteen hours and even after that i had no audio or graphics drivers vs this time it took four~ish hours are large part of that even being my 300~ Kbps connection to get into Openbox with my graphics drivers running now and an extra two-three hours to get audio and some extra kernel patches i needed (Side note here compile chromium over night it took almost two hours to just compile it). At that point my work space still wasn't built but i had Firefox, Thunderbird, audio and was able to play games!

Now why did i go back to Gentoo? The biggest reason would have to be massive customization as you know Arch gets alot of praise for being a super modular OS as it starts from a basic install and lets you build up your OS from the ground up. Well Gentoo is the same here with the one big difference that every program is exactly what you want not only what programs you want! Now before you scoff at that point and say who cares let me tell you why that is a nicer feature then you think. First off it will a faster at some level as the parts of the program that you don't need just won't be compiled! another big plus is security as you compile everything from it's source code you don't need to trust it or who ever is compiling the binary's for your distribution. The last point i have really rolls along with the first point as using the USE flags you can control what is baked in to your software a good example of where i this is helpful is with Wine as it allows you to super easily exactly copy some else's setup for running a program on it.

Now if the first two didn't budge you this last point might. Packages. Gentoo Has 19,000~ officially published packages to put that into prescriptive even arch only has 14, 700~! This is also failing to account for the fact that if Gentoo is missing a package and you have to manually compile something the whole environment is already there updated and ready where as on Arch if you have to use AUR you might have to if you already haven't setup the environment to compile the package.

Now this final point i'd like to make about Gentoo is that i am already in love with Portage. This is coming from someone who has used Pacman, Apt, XBPS, Zypper and RPM but even comparing it to all of those portage with USE flags make dependencyes so nice and easy. A good example is if you want to compile a program that by default does not use X but can you can add an X flag and portage will grab everything needed to satisfy that flag.

So finally the question i always ask myself to help rate an OS is would i recommend this to someone. And the answer for Gentoo is it depends if you can easily install/use Arch then yes i would recommend it and if you're already really good or even just meh at Linux you still should give it a try even it a VM as just installing and getting it running wil teach you alot on how Linux works and how compiling works!

Thanks for reading! if you have any issues, questions or anything else please feel free to contact me via [Email](mailto:blog@boops.me) or [Twitter](https://twitter.com/Sir_Boops)!
