---
layout: post
title:  "Switching From Gentoo To Void Linux"
date:   2016-05-28 11:38:00 -0600
---

Gentoo while lightweight at the start and fun to use. Yes i found Gentoo fun to use does that make me crazy? No i don't think so but who knows. Was "slow" no i didn't boot slowly OpenRC offers roughly the same boot time it my experience using it and no Gentoo is really responsive. So what am i talking about then? If you don't know Gentoo is a source based distro what this means is well..When you use a distro like Arch for example and you install a package it's just that a pre compiled binary with almost every flag on it so when you or anyone installs it on their system it will most likely work pretty well for you/them the down side to this system is just that most packages will have almost every flag that can be enabled enabled this while not a huge issue over time and with lots of packages can start to slow down your system this is where Gentoo shines it only enables/sets the flags that you need for your system making sure that everything is as small and as lightweight as possible. This is also the downside to Gentoo in my opinion as nice as it is knowing and feeling your system run nice and fast it can take a very very VERY long time to compile specific programs or when you install Gentoo initially and you want a desktop you aren't using your computer for the next 8~ hours although that time a vary wildly that's how long it took me to install plasma and get it running.

Now with all that out of the way why did i choose Void? For the same reason i choose Gentoo it's very different as i said [here](https://boops.me/my-experience-trying-voidlinux/) But after using it some more I've started it really enjoy it. The only big thing that i know at the time of me testing it but Runit on Void it fast example being  my computer running a base install of Arch would take 10-13~ seconds to boot. Using void that's down to 5> and that includes loading it to the desktop! Also keeping in mind Plasma is a lot heaver then MATE Arch had Plasma Void has MATE so that can affect boot times slightly but still that is quite a big difference!
