---
layout: post
title:  "Arch As A Server"
date:   2016-06-21 10:55:00 -0600
---

I can hear some Linux server administrators screaming in the distance. Using bleeding edge software in production is always risky as it could break your application or production flow or have security vulnerablys. So why do it then? Simple want that fancy feature that for example NGINX added? Well if you're using Debian looks like you're compiling NGINX or waiting for around a year in my experience which if you want something like HTTP/2 that's quite the wait for such a simple little feature no? Now if you use arch as your server box this also gives you access to the AUR (Arch User Repo) and if you've used this before you know that this means that you'll almost never have to manually compile anything and thanks to pacaur pacman that includes AUR and with that it brings pacaur -Syu and if you haven't used pacman before that's full system update so this means even if it's not inside the arch repos you can get and compile it off the AUR all automatically! All of this and I've not even mentioned the best part Arch is a minimal distro this means it starts with almost nothing and you have to add everything that you want no this may sound annoying but it's actually a bonus as you don't have to worry that something that you never installed in vulnerable to an attack and you don't even know you have that package installed. So overall If you want to use Arch as a server OS i would suggest you do BUT only if you have an idea of what you're doing. Other wise i would say stick to Ubuntu.
