---
layout: post
title:  "No Nice Basic Note Taking App"
date:   2016-08-04 12:11:00 -0600
---

No, Notepad doesn't count for this as i wanted on online so i could view it on any device. My quest for this was simple find a simple open source self hosted web app that allows the easy taking of notes. Shouldn't be to hard right? Well you'd think that but to my surprise and perhaps yours their isn't any one that stands out or even "works" for me.

So before i jump into this i should define "works" in this case i wanted a web based self hosted FOSS note taking app. Now when you search for apps that you can use to take notes with their are tons like one note, ever note etc etc but the problem there is you have to trust them not to read those notes and if theirs one thing I've learned from privacy experts is host it yourself or you have no chance at privacy but this is beside the point so back on track. When i was trying to find a note taking app to run i wanted on that i could run on a low RAM server low ram as 128MB of RAM low as a sever with such low RAM makes it super cheap it run (15$ USD/Yr) and this is important as i don't want to end up spending a ton of money for such a basic service. So with those is mind i went to ddg looked up a FOSS note taking web app and found Laverna nice a modern looking simple note taking app! So i clone and try to compile it on the low RAM box and I'm going to guess you how that turned out. It didn't compile as lack of ram well no issue there I'll just compile it on another PC and upload it to that one so i go off compile and upload try to run it and nothing no errors it just simply doesn't start even after trying their pre-compiled binary still nothing. And this is what ended my attempts at Laverna.

Now back searching for another app i headed over to github ordered by star count and doing so lead me to PaperWork. Now paperwork seemed modern like Laverna but was still a basic website at heart making it easier for me to have a chance at running it. After installing all it dependencies i open it up only to say it's missing half of the dependencies i just installed but it would still let me continue with the install so i did. After i set it up with a MYSQL backup and it populates the database i go to the finial step of the install and nothing. "Could not write config file" Oh, i was thinking this is an easy fix just run `chown www-data:www-data * -R` and done right? Nope it was still unable write. Perhaps a folder permission error? `chmod 775 * -R` And still the same result. Now at this point you have to remember i was still angry from not being able to get Laverna working so the box got nuked once again.

After a few hours of thinking i remembered that Media Wiki is a thing that is also open source and can be hosted on less then a potato so i try it out and on the first attempt installs perfectly. After the install and some skimming of the markup documentation Media wiki is a very good alternatives. Media Wiki in my opinion is better then some of the note taking apps I've seen since it has version tracking markdown east creation of pages. It was basically what i was looking for but didn't think to try until i angered myself on the first two web apps!

So in conclusion I'd just like to say if you're a web developer and looking to make something but don't know what yet you should try creating a note taking app based on top of media wiki. And finally if you're stuck in the same hole i was stuck in give media Wiki a try it won't hurt and you might like it more then your current form of note taking!

Thanks for reading! if you have any issues, questions or anything else please feel free to contact me via [Email](mailto:blog@boops.me) or [Twitter](https://twitter.com/Sir_Boops)!
