---
layout: post
title:  "A Week With Fedora"
date:   2016-09-24 09:18:00 -0600
---

Fedora, A RHEL ( Red Hat Enterprise Linux ) based Linux distribution. Fedora 24 as the time of this publication uses GNOME 3 along with Linux kernel 4.7.X and DNF ( A Fork Of YUM ) As it's package manager. Fedora is built to be free ( As in freedom ) operating system only adding the bare minimum non-free components to help ensure compatibility. My first install attempt was thwarted thanks to a bad write which points out the first very helpful small part of the installer, As before the install starts it will sum all it's parts to ensure it had a proper write to the medium that you are installing it from along with to a lesser extent it helps with your security as you can be slightly more sure that nothing bad was injected into it when you left your drive laying around. After i resolved that issue the install process continued with out any major issues that weren't caused by myself.

Upon first boot you will be greeted with a nice and surprisingly snappy GNOME3 interface with the word "fedora" written in the bottom corner of the desktop, While I'm assuming it's there to help tell other people that see your desktop that you use fedora it is kinda weird to see something like that in a Linux distribution. Now, after doing a full system update as you do once installing a new OS and rebooting to load the new Kernel this is where i had my first major issue in that the DNF refused to update the Kernel even after forcing a reinstall of it. So not wanting to deal with a potently dirty install of Fedora as if I'm going to review the Distro i don't want to review it using a bad install!

After reinstalling and doing a full update again i rebooted and yay Kernel 4.7! now that i was running a fully updated vanilla system the first thing i always install is Nvidia drivers as my other monitors don't work and games of course won't work with out them. This is where i discovered that Nvidia is not included in the default repos shipped with Fedora as it is non-free software. This means in order to install anything non-free you need to add another repo, In my case i ended up adding RPM Fusion. This although did annoy me at the time does make sense as you can't have a fully free OS with proprietary software installed on it.

Although once i got over those hurdles and started slowly reinstalling everything else i use i started to get a feel for where Fedora fits in in operating systems in terms of feel. Right between Arch Linux and CentOS. If that doesn't make sense don't worry, What i mean by saying that is since it is based on RHEL as CentOS also is they are of course going to have the same vibe to them, Just like some other similar features like they both use SELlinux DNF is just a fork of Yum so same type of package manager. As for it's relation to Arch Linux i mean that in the sense that they both are very quick with their updates as shown by the fact that a new release of Fedora comes out six~ish months apart from each other and by the fact that i'm currently running Kernel 4.7.4 the same as my Arch Linux box.

As for some extra notes on Fedora 24, It uses GCC 6.2.X, It comes preloaded with LibreOffice, Firefox, Evolution Mail Client all the basics to help you get your new Workstation up and running quickly. It has a server version available so if you only want to use one OS across all your devices you could. The ISO size is 1.47GB Which is a bit heavy for my taste but since it comes so filled straight out of the box it is not that surprising.

So as for my recommendation of Fedora. Would i recommend it to someone? Well..That would really depend if that someone was looking to learn SELinux and wanted to begin to learn RHEL then yes i would recommend this over something like CentOS for your work station as it has all the latest versions of software so you don't feel like you're living in the stone age using a software version that was last updated ( I'm Not Counting Patches Here! ) a year or more ago. Would i use it again? Most likely not as I'm not currently trying to learn RHEL and i like to easily install some non-free software on my machine i would most likely choose something over Antergos over fedora.
