---
layout: post
title:  "Rolling Release Vs Planned Releases"
date:   2016-07-27 09:49:00 -0600
---

A rolling release is as it sounds it is a single version of a version-less release. Sounds weird right? well let me put it into easier to understand context for you. You might know about Arch Linux if you don't it is a rolling release Distro that means there is only the initial release version of Arch That is always kept up to date. See a single version of a version-less release! simple right?

Now Planned release or versioned(?) releases also are as they sound a Distro that has been planned to have specific versions of software like Ubuntu version X will only ever get version X of software with security updates so by the EoL (End Of Life) of Ubuntu X you will still have version X.Y of that specific piece of software.

Now that you have an idea of what they are let's go over some of the pros and cons of each. Starting with planned releases some of the major benefits that come with it are the assurance that a system updating won't break your system. This coming from the fact that most/all packages in a planned release have a specific version that they stick for for the life of the OS. That little fact also makes planned releases widely used on servers because every time you update the last thing you want is some dependency breaking for another piece of software leading to downtime. On the topic of negatives lets also look into some downsides of planned releases such as the fact that you can get stuck with older software a good example of this is OpenSSL if the version of the Distro you are running is only ever using openSSL 1.0.1 and you need 1.0.2 for example looks like you're compiling or upgrading your OS to the next version to get that update. This also rolls nicely into my next point if you're using a planned release then it will become outdated meaning that you will have to do a reinstall or really risk it and try an in place upgrade but which ever of the two you choose they both end with you eventually end up with you upgrading your box and having to redo it or pray the in place upgrade works.

Rolling back into a more positive vibe (Ha!) lets look at some of the upsides of a rolling release. The first big one is you never have to reinstall once you install the Distro you'll only ever have to pacman -Syu (Arch update all command) and you'll have the latest version of everything available for your Distro. This also goes into the next big point of you'll always have the latest and greatest versions of software a perfect example of this is at the time of writing this the RX480 has just recently been released and the new kernel that has the drivers built in is 4.7. Now if you're on a rolling release it might take hours or days to get that update but you still know it's going to be coming pretty quickly this is a huge contrast to a planned release Distro as they have already decided on a specific kernel version for there Distro leaving the users that want/need that drive compiling the kernel themselves or sitting on the beta/alpha branch of their Distro hoping it comes quickly. Wow all this sounds so nice! Well this is where the bad news about rolling releases comes in as you might've guessed since it might only take a day~ish to get the newest kernel there is not a lot if any testing being done forcing you to test it and forcing you to hope that the next time you update that some broken patch hasn't been issued with a large security hole or even an update that as the Arch joke goes "Broke my xorg.conf again".

Now personally for my personal home computer i use Void/Arch/Gentoo all rolling releases as for me i don't mind if i get issues while updating actually sometimes it's fun to get issues as it can lead to you learning something that you might not have unless this happened. That being said the value to a planned release is huge and unless you have time to tinker with your system or always want/need the latest packages i would suggest you use a planned release as like i said above they are usually very stable and dependable.

Thanks for reading! if you have any issues, questions or anything else please feel free to contact me via [Email](mailto:blog@boops.me) or [Twitter](https://twitter.com/Sir_Boops)!
