---
layout: post
title:  "Why You Shouldn't Use A VPN Service"
date:   2016-06-26 19:58:00 -0600
---

You never know. /post

No but on a more serious note you have no idea who really has access to the "wires" that you are using and for a moment lets say their is one VPN provider that is 100% true to their word of they track nothing log nothing and they are perfectly secure (Yes i know this is not possible but this is just an example) unless you are using full ipv6 and if you're reading this there is a 90%~ percent chance (based of google ipv6 stats) that you're not using it you'll be sharing that ipv4 with a whole lot of other people meaning that you'll likely hit every spam filter on any site you go to with one and there is a good chance that you'll be blocked from some or even many sites not because you have done something malicious towards the site but from the fact that the ip you're using has a really high chance of being on blacklists from being a know VPN exit node. Phew and remember that is in a best case scenario when you start to factor in things like Well you don't truly know who is watching the connection and if and arnt logging it plus if they are in the US they could have been issued a gag order by the government preventing them from telling you that the government is watching you (Hi NSA Bot!). Now at this point you might be thinking oh god this might be happening to me or holy crap take your tin foil hat off! To which i reply i just got it fitted! but yes as the only true way to obtain true privacy is to pay for a dedicated server with bitcoin you mined and only connect though public hot spots with a long range antennae and while a few might *cough* stallman *cough* might do something like this or more even i know that 99.99999% of you will never even attempt to mimic that setup. Now to the original group of people thinking oh god maybe this is happening to me! Never fear an moderately easy fix is here called openvpn or a easy way to allow you to host your own VPN server/client setup without using SSH tunnels as fun as they are. What are the daw back of this setup? well alot of VPS/KVM Hosts don't allow VPN software in the first place so you'll have to find one that does near you so you can play games even under the VPN with little to no difference to your ping. Then for the up sides remember that ipv6 i was taking about? does your ISP not offer it yet but you want it? Well if you can find a dual stack host you can easily route public addresses though the VPN tunnel or even use NAT. i know someone shuddered reading that! Overall if you value your privacy in any from or even just want to for IPv6 i would suggest OpenVPN as you can only trust your self.

If you have any questions, comments or anything feel free to [email me](mailto:blog@boops.me)
