---
layout: post
title:  "Trying OpenSUSE"
date:   2016-06-13 18:46:00 -0600
---

Why Yes, I do switch distributions quite a bit and by quite a bit i mean i may have went though around four today trying to find one where i liked the look of the base installed desktop. Yes i know that i can just grab a minimal version of any distro i want and throw a good desktop environment on top of it but that's work and i wanted something easy that worked pretty well out of the box. This is why i decided to try OpenSuSE as last time i used it (Granted that was inside of a VM) it worked great out of the box and looked amazing as it uses KDE plasma and plasma is so sexy but getting back to trying to install openSUSE. The first issue i came across was my own fault but I'm still going to complain because it's dumb that you can't do that and by that i mean install from the live DVD. Why? i have zero idea. Now before you say anything no i did not read any of the red text on the page before downloading and writing it to a USB but still come on you should be able to install from a live DVD and not just the net installer. That actually leads me perfectly into my second point the net installer. Wow it is slow to start Yes i know my internet is slow at an amazing six down and one up but holy crap I'm talking 20+ minutes just for the dam installer to get to the initial splash screen with no progress bars! That while annoying i can live though. Now as i go along in the installer i get to the point where i have to partition my drives dam I'm not sure if I'm slow today but that screen took me a good five~ish minutes to figure out. But after that you got it running right? Nope i left the installer to download and partition one and a half hours later it was still on the same step so i re did that whole process again two more times got the same result and said screw it and installed Ubuntu 16.04 for now. Now i do plan on trying opensuse again but perhaps on it's next net installer release as i have a funny feeling that this one is quite buggy.
